<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="i11t.css"/>
  <title>Introduction</title>
</head>
<body class="segment-chapter">

<!-- metadata: nil  -->


<h1 class="segment-chapter">Introduction</h1>

<p>Each year at WWDC, Apple introduces brand new tools and APIs for iOS developers. WWDC 2017 was no different, as iOS 11 and Xcode 9 introduced a pile of amazing new technologies and features for developers of all backgrounds!
</p>
<p>The most exciting feature in iOS 11 by far is ARKit, which opens up the world of augmented reality to iPhone developers everywhere. Sure, it was possible to do some basic AR on the iPhone before iOS 11, but ARKit does the heavy lifting of plane detection and camera placement for you, so you can focus on building amazing experiences instead. ARKit makes it easier than ever to create incredibly immersive experiences, including portals to virtual worlds, 3D games and art, and compelling ecommerce apps. What new worlds will you create with ARKit?
</p>
<p>The new Vision and Core ML frameworks bring the power of machine learning models into your apps. Whether you’re building a sentiment analysis app, creating advanced face and scene detection algorithms, or just trying to figure out whether something is a hot dog or not, Core ML makes it easy to plug pre-trained machine learning models into your app, and Vision provides a host of advanced detection technologies for text, images, faces, and more.
</p>
<p>Xcode 9 sports a completely rewritten editor, helpers for code refactoring, improved responsiveness, support for Markdown, and (finally!) wireless debugging. Add in the other new features in iOS 11, such as the new drag-and-drop, PDFKit, MusicKit, Swift 4 updates and more, and you have one of the most exciting iOS releases to date.
</p>
<p>Gone are the days when every third-party developer knew everything there is to know about iOS. The sheer size of iOS can make new releases seem daunting. That’s why the Tutorial Team has been working really hard to extract the important parts of the new APIs, and to present this information in an easy-to-understand tutorial format. This means you can focus on what you want to be doing — building amazing apps!
</p>
<p>Get ready for your own private tour through the amazing new features of iOS 11. By the time you’re done, your iOS knowledge will be completely up-to-date and you’ll be able to benefit from the amazing new opportunities in iOS 11.
</p>
<h2 class="segment-chapter">What you need</h2>

<p>To follow along with the tutorials in this book, you’ll need the following:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><em>A Mac running macOS Sierra or later.</em> You’ll need this to be able to install the latest version of Xcode.
</p></li>

<li>
<p><em>Xcode 9.0 or later.</em> Xcode is the main development tool for iOS. You’ll need Xcode 9.0 or later for all tasks in this book. You can download the latest version of Xcode 9 from Apple’s developer site here: <a href="https://developer.apple.com/develop/">apple.co/2asi58y</a>
</p></li>

<li>
<p><em>One or more devices (iPhone, iPad) running iOS 11 or later.</em> Most of the chapters in the book let you run your code on the iOS 11 Simulator that comes with Xcode. However, a few chapters later in the book require one or more physical iOS devices for testing. For ARKit chapters, you’ll need a device with an A9 processor or better.
</p></li>
</ul>

<p>Once you have these items in place, you’ll be able to follow along with every chapter in this book.
</p>
<h2 class="segment-chapter">Who this book is for</h2>

<p>This book is for intermediate or advanced iOS developers who already know the basics of iOS and Swift development but want to learn about the new APIs, frameworks, and changes in Xcode 9 and iOS 11.
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><em>If you are a complete beginner to iOS development</em>, we recommend you read through <i>The iOS Apprentice, Fifth Edition</i> first. Otherwise this book may be a bit too advanced for you.
</p></li>

<li>
<p><em>If you are a beginner to Swift</em>, we recommend you read through either <i>The iOS Apprentice, Fifth Edition</i> (if you are a complete beginner to programming), or <i>The Swift Apprentice, Second Edition</i> (if you already have some programming experience) first.
</p></li>
</ul>

<p>If you need one of these prerequisite books, you can find them on our store here:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><a href="http://store.raywenderlich.com">store.raywenderlich.com</a>
</p></li>
</ul>

<p>As with raywenderlich.com, all the tutorials in this book are in Swift.
</p>
<h2 class="segment-chapter">What’s in store</h2>

<p>Here’s a quick summary of what you’ll find in each chapter:
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 1, What’s New in Swift 4</em>: Swift 4 shows a maturing of the Swift language, and brings new functionality to Strings, improvements to Dictionaries and Sets, the new Codable protocol, multi-line string literals, one-sided ranges and more. Read this chapter for a quick overview of what’s new!
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 2, What’s New in Foundation</em>: Learn about all the best updates under the hood, including updates to keypath, KVO, encoding and decoding, and more.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 3, What’s New in Xcode 9</em>: From editor improvements, to Markdown support, to refactoring, to wireless debugging, Xcode 9 makes your life as a developer easier than ever before. Learn what’s new and improved in the latest release of Apple’s IDE.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 4, What’s New in UIKit</em>: This chapter covers the best new UI features of iOS 11, such as Drag and Drop, the Document Browser, table view changes, and changes to Auto Layout.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 5, What’s New in Layout</em>: Expanding upon the previous chapter, you’ll explore the way Auto Layout works in iOS 11, including changes to navigation controllers, large titles, safe areas, table views, stack views, and more.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 6, Beginning Drag and Drop</em>: Take advantage of the new drag-and-drop features to select one or more files from within your application, drag them around, and drop them on target locations within your app.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 7, Advanced Drag and Drop</em>: Building on the previous chapter, you’ll explore how to drag and drop files between different applications, how NSItemProvider and UIDragItem work, and how to animate your drag-and-drop in intelligent, meaningful ways.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 8, Document-Based Apps</em>: Learn how the Document Provider works, how it stands apart from the Document Picker, how to create new files, import existing files, and even add custom actions.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 9, Core ML </em><em>&amp;</em><em> Vision</em>: Get started with the exciting Core ML and Vision frameworks as you build a face-detection and text-recognition app, complete with filters and object classification.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 10, Natural Language Processing</em>: Learn how to detect the language of a body of text, how to work with named entities, how sentiment analysis works, how to perform searches with NSLinguisticTagger, and more!
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 11, ARKit</em>: Build your own augmented reality app as you learn how to set up ARKit, detect feature points and draw planes, how to create and locate 3D models in your scene, handle low lighting conditions and manage session interruptions. With all the amazing things happening in AR lately, you won’t want to miss this chapter!
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 12, PDFKit</em>: Finally — you can easily create and annotate PDFs using native Apple libraries on the iPhone with PDFKit. Learn how to create thumbnails, add text, UI controls and watermarks to your documents, and even create custom actions for the UI controls in your PDF documents.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 13, MusicKit</em>: Enjoy your vast collection of songs in Apple Music — directly in your own apps! You’ll create a fun song-guessing game to play with your friends as you learn how to select, share and play music from your library, manage access permissions and even detect when a user isn’t a member of Apple Music and encourage them to sign up.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 14, Password Autofill</em>: A vast improvement on iOS 8’s Safari Autofill, the new password autofilling option in iOS 11 makes it easier for your users to log in to your app, while maintaining user confidentiality at all times. Learn how to auto-recognize username and password fields, set up associated domains, and create a seamless login experience for your users.
</p>
<p><em>Chapter 15, Dynamic Type</em>: Dynamic type is even better in iOS 11 — less truncation and clipping, improved titles on tab bars, and more intelligent scaling make using text onscreen a breeze. Learn how to think about Dynamic Type as you architect your app, and how to accommodate large typefaces in your app’s layout.
</p>
<h2 class="segment-chapter">Book source code and forums</h2>

<p>This book comes with the Swift source code for each chapter — it’s shipped with the PDF. Some of the chapters have starter projects or other required resources, so you’ll definitely want them close at hand as you go through the book.
</p>
<p>We’ve also set up an official forum for the book at <a href="http://forums.raywenderlich.com">forums.raywenderlich.com</a>. This is a great place to ask questions about the book, discuss making apps with iOS 11 in general, share challenge solutions, or to submit any errors you may find.
</p>
<h2 class="segment-chapter">Book updates</h2>

<p>Great news: since you purchased the PDF version of this book, you’ll receive free updates of the content in this book!
</p>
<p>The best way to receive update notifications is to sign up for our weekly newsletter. This includes a list of the tutorials published on raywenderlich.com in the past week, important news items such as book updates or new books, and a few of our favorite developer links. You can sign up here:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><a href="http://www.raywenderlich.com/newsletter">www.raywenderlich.com/newsletter</a>
</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 class="segment-chapter">License</h2>

<p>By purchasing <i>iOS 11 by Tutorials</i>, you have the following license:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>You are allowed to use and/or modify the source code in <i>iOS 11 by Tutorials</i> in as many apps as you want, with no attribution required.
</p></li>

<li>
<p>You are allowed to use and/or modify all art, images, or designs that are included in <i>iOS 11 by Tutorials</i> in as many apps as you want, but must include this attribution line somewhere inside your app: “Artwork/images/designs: from the <i>iOS 11 by Tutorials</i> book, available at <a href="http://www.raywenderlich.com">www.raywenderlich.com</a>”.
</p></li>

<li>
<p>The source code included in <i>iOS 11 by Tutorials</i> is for your own personal use only. You are NOT allowed to distribute or sell the source code in <i>iOS 11 by Tutorials</i> without prior authorization.
</p></li>

<li>
<p>This book is for your own personal use only. You are NOT allowed to sell this book without prior authorization, or distribute it to friends, co-workers, or students; they must to purchase their own copy instead.
</p></li>
</ul>

<p>All materials provided with this book are provided on an “as is” basis, without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. In no event shall the authors or copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages or other liability, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the software or the use or other dealings in the software.
</p>
<p>All trademarks and registered trademarks appearing in this guide are the property of their respective owners.
</p>
<h2 class="segment-chapter">Acknowledgments</h2>

<p>We would like to thank many people for their assistance in making this possible:
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><em>Our families:</em> For bearing with us in this crazy time as we worked all hours of the night to get this book ready for publication!
</p></li>

<li>
<p><em>Everyone at Apple:</em> For developing an amazing operating system and set of APIs, for constantly inspiring us to improve our apps and skills, and for making it possible for many developers to have their dream jobs!
</p></li>

<li>
<p><em>And most importantly, the readers of raywenderlich.com — especially you</em><em>!</em> Thank you so much for reading our site and purchasing this book. Your continued readership and support is what makes all of this possible!
</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 class="segment-chapter">About the cover</h2>

<p>The blue sugeonfish, also known as the regal blue tang, hippo tang, doctorfish and letter six fish, sports bright yellow tails and pectoral fins, in contrast to the vivid blue of their bodies. The black markings on their side form a rough “6” — hence the “six” name.
</p>
<p>Surgeonfish get their name from the sharp, venomous scalpel-like spines on their body that they use to fight off predators, and sometimes, each other. Although they can defend themselves, surgeonfish often float motionless on their side and “play dead” to avoid being detected by larger, passing predators.
</p>
<p>However, we <i>don’t</i> recommend that same approach to avoid being detected by your boss, when you’re spending all your work hours building cool ARKit apps!
</p></body></html>
